README.md, before:

# ansible-role-cloudwatch-agent #

[![GitHub Build Status](https://github.com/cisagov/ansible-role-cloudwatch-agent/workflows/build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/cisagov/ansible-role-cloudwatch-agent/actions)
[![CodeQL](https://github.com/cisagov/ansible-role-cloudwatch-agent/workflows/CodeQL/badge.svg)](https://github.com/cisagov/ansible-role-cloudwatch-agent/actions/workflows/codeql-analysis.yml)

This is an Ansible role that installs and enables the [Amazon
CloudWatch
Agent](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/Install-CloudWatch-Agent.html)
systemd service.

Note that for an EC2 instance to successfully run the CloudWatch
Agent, it must be started with an instance role that includes the
"CloudWatchAgentServerPolicy" policy.  See
[here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/create-iam-roles-for-cloudwatch-agent.html)
for more details.

See
[here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/CloudWatch-Agent-Configuration-File-Details.html)
for details on configuring the Amazon CloudWatch Agent.

Note that this Ansible role makes use of the [`json_patch` Ansible
module](https://github.com/ParticleDecay/ansible-jsonpatch), which is
proposed for inclusion into the main Ansible project.  (For more
information about what JSON Patch is, see
[here](http://jsonpatch.com/).)  A copy of the relevant piece of
Python code from that repository is included in the `library`
directory, so there is no extra action required by the user.

## Requirements ##

None.

## Role Variables ##

None.

<!--
| Variable | Description | Default | Required |
|----------|-------------|---------|----------|
| optional_variable | Describe its purpose. | `default_value` | No |
| required_variable | Describe its purpose. | n/a | Yes |
-->

## Dependencies ##

None.

## Example Playbook ##

Here's how to use it in a playbook:

```yaml
- hosts: ec2
  become: true
  become_method: sudo
  tasks:
    - name: Install AWS CloudWatch agent
      ansible.builtin.include_role:
        name: cloudwatch_agent
```

## Contributing ##

We welcome contributions!  Please see [`CONTRIBUTING.md`](CONTRIBUTING.md) for
details.

## License ##

This project is in the worldwide [public domain](LICENSE).

This project is in the public domain within the United States, and
copyright and related rights in the work worldwide are waived through
the [CC0 1.0 Universal public domain
dedication](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

All contributions to this project will be released under the CC0
dedication. By submitting a pull request, you are agreeing to comply
with this waiver of copyright interest.

## Author Information ##

Shane Frasier - <jeremy.frasier@gwe.cisa.dhs.gov>

Commit message:

Provide some configuration of the CloudWatch log group names
Allow modification of the base of the log group names used in the
CloudWatch configuration file. The default value provides the same
configuration as this role provides without this change.

README.md, after:

# ansible-role-cloudwatch-agent #

[![GitHub Build Status](https://github.com/cisagov/ansible-role-cloudwatch-agent/workflows/build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/cisagov/ansible-role-cloudwatch-agent/actions)
[![CodeQL](https://github.com/cisagov/ansible-role-cloudwatch-agent/workflows/CodeQL/badge.svg)](https://github.com/cisagov/ansible-role-cloudwatch-agent/actions/workflows/codeql-analysis.yml)

This is an Ansible role that installs and enables the [Amazon
CloudWatch
Agent](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/Install-CloudWatch-Agent.html)
systemd service.

Note that for an EC2 instance to successfully run the CloudWatch
Agent, it must be started with an instance role that includes the
"CloudWatchAgentServerPolicy" policy.  See
[here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/create-iam-roles-for-cloudwatch-agent.html)
for more details.

See
[here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/CloudWatch-Agent-Configuration-File-Details.html)
for details on configuring the Amazon CloudWatch Agent.

Note that this Ansible role makes use of the [`json_patch` Ansible
module](https://github.com/ParticleDecay/ansible-jsonpatch), which is
proposed for inclusion into the main Ansible project.  (For more
information about what JSON Patch is, see
[here](http://jsonpatch.com/).)  A copy of the relevant piece of
Python code from that repository is included in the `library`
directory, so there is no extra action required by the user.

## Requirements ##

None.

## Role Variables ##

| Variable | Description | Default | Required |
|----------|-------------|---------|----------|
| cloudwatch_agent_log_group_base_name | The base name to use for all the log groups defined in the CloudWatch configuration file. Other values will be appended to the base name to create the final values as appropriate. | `/instance-logs` | No |

## Dependencies ##

None.

## Example Playbook ##

Here's how to use it in a playbook:

```yaml
- hosts: ec2
  become: true
  become_method: sudo
  tasks:
    - name: Install AWS CloudWatch agent
      ansible.builtin.include_role:
        name: cloudwatch_agent
```

## Contributing ##

We welcome contributions!  Please see [`CONTRIBUTING.md`](CONTRIBUTING.md) for
details.

## License ##

This project is in the worldwide [public domain](LICENSE).

This project is in the public domain within the United States, and
copyright and related rights in the work worldwide are waived through
the [CC0 1.0 Universal public domain
dedication](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

All contributions to this project will be released under the CC0
dedication. By submitting a pull request, you are agreeing to comply
with this waiver of copyright interest.

## Author Information ##

Shane Frasier - <jeremy.frasier@gwe.cisa.dhs.gov>
